Ingredients
For cashew nut paste:
6-7 Cashew nuts broken
¼ cup Warm water
For onion paste:
1 medium or ¾ cup Onion roughly chopped
1 Green chili
½ inch Ginger
2 cloves Garlic
2 Green cardamoms
2 Cloves
¼ inch Cinnamon stick
1/3 cup Water
For shahi paneer recipe:
7 oz or 200 grams Paneer - cut into cubes or triangles
2 tablespoons Oil
2 medium or 1 ¼ cup Tomato pureed
Salt to taste
1 ½ teaspoons Red chili powder
1 teaspoon Coriander powder
⅛ teaspoon Black pepper powder
1 cup Water
½ teaspoon Garam masala
1 teaspoon Kasoori methi (Dried fenugreek leaves) lightly crushed
5-6 strands Saffron
3-4 tablespoons Heavy whipping cream or fresh cream or malai
⅛ teaspoon Green cardamom seeds powder
2 tablespoons Cilantro or coriander leaves finely chopped


How to make the recipe

Making cashew paste:
Soak the cashew nuts in a warm water for at least 15 minutes. meanwhile prep other ingredients.
After 15 minutes make smooth paste out of it and keep it aside.

Making onion paste:
Take all the paste ingredients in a pan. Add water, turn the heat on high.
Bring to a boil. Once it starts boiling lower the heat to medium.
Let it simmer for 8-10 minutes or till onions get soft and translucent. Turn off the stove and let it cool down slightly.
Once it is cooled, make smooth paste out of it using blender or grinder.
Also puree the tomatoes in the same grinder.

Making shahi paneer recipe:
Heat the oil in a pan on medium heat. Once hot add prepared onion paste.
Cook till moisture evaporates, about 4-5 minutes.
Then add tomato puree. Stir well and let it cook.
Cook till all the moisture evaporates and oil starts to ooze out from the sides. Do stir in between.
Add salt, black pepper powder, red chili powder and coriander powder.
Mix well and cook for a minute.
Now add cashew nut paste and mix.
Immediately add water, otherwise it starts to stick to the pan because of the cashew paste.
Stir well and let it simmer for 4-5 minutes.
Then mix in garam masala and crushed kasoori methi.
Now add saffron strands and stir.
Add paneer pieces. Mix well and let it simmer for 2 minutes. Adjust the gravy consistency at this time if needed.
Add heavy cream. Mix and bring to a boil. Then turn off the stove.
Add cardamom powder and sprinkle chopped coriander leaves.
Mix well and it is ready to serve.